Add tutorial for writing an event source - easy way (#2494)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/samples/writing-event-source-easy-way/README.md

# Introduction

As stated in [tutorial on writing a Source with a Receive Adapter](../writing-receive-adapter-source/README.md), there are multiple ways to
create event sources. The way in that tutorial is to create an independent event source that has its own CRD.

> In this tutorial though, you will build an event source in Javascript and use it with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial provides a simpler mechanism to build an event source in Javascript and use it with
```

[ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) and / or [SinkBinding](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources).

[ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) is an easy way to turn any dispatcher container into an Event Source.

> Similarly, another option is using [SinkBinding](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources)

Reviewer: I thought we were recommending SinkBinding over ContainerSource at this point?

@n3wscott

Author: Added a sentence about the preferred way in https://github.com/knative/docs/pull/2512

which provides a framework for injecting environment variables into any Kubernetes resource which has a `spec.template` that looks like a Pod (aka PodSpecable).

> Code for this tutorial is available [here](./).

Reviewer: I don't think this link will work correctly on the website; but you can put in `git clone` instructions.

# Bootstrapping

Create the project and add the dependencies:
```bash
npm init
npm install cloudevents-sdk --save
```

## Making use of ContainerSource

`ContainerSource` and `SinkBinding` both work by injecting environment variables to an application.
Injected environment variables at minimum contain the URL of a sink that will receive events.

Following example emits an event to the sink every 1000 milliseconds.
The sink URL to post the events will be made available to the application via the `K_SINK` environment variable by `ContainerSource`.

```javascript

> // File - index.js

Reviewer: You may want to use the [`{{% readfile file="index.js" %}}`](https://github.com/knative/website/blob/master/layouts/shortcodes/readfile.md) shortcode here.

Author: Let's do that later if necessary. The code I embedded in the tutorial is a bit shorter and more focused than the code in the files.

const v1 = require("cloudevents-sdk/v1");

let sinkUrl = process.env['K_SINK'];

console.log("Sink URL is " + sinkUrl);

let config = {
    method: "POST",
    url: sinkUrl
};

// The binding instance
let binding = new v1.BinaryHTTPEmitter(config);

let eventIndex = 0;
setInterval(function () {
    console.log("Emitting event #" + ++eventIndex);

    // create the event
    let myevent = v1.event()
        .id('your-event-id')
        .type("your.event.source.type")
        .source("urn:event:from:your-api/resource/123")
        .dataContentType("application/json")
        .data({"hello": "World " + eventIndex});

    // Emit the event
    binding.emit(myevent)
        .then(response => {
            // Treat the response
            console.log("Event posted successfully");
            console.log(response.data);
        })
        .catch(err => {
            // Deal with errors
            console.log("Error during event post");
            console.error(err);
        });
}, 1000);
```

> ```dockerfile

Reviewer: (Ditto)

# File - Dockerfile

FROM node:10
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .
EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "index.js" ]

```

Build and push the image:
```bash
docker build . -t path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
docker push path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
```

> Create the event display service which simply logs any cloudevents posted to it.

Reviewer: Do you want to use `kn` to create this service, instead of needing to fill in YAML?

Actually, that may not be necessary if this is always a fixed (published) image. Is `event-display` part of the released container images?

Author: `event-display` is part of the released container images, yep.

```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: event-display
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: docker.io/aliok/event_display-864884f202126ec3150c5fcef437d90c@sha256:93cb4dcda8fee80a1f68662ae6bf20301471b046ede628f3c3f94f39752fbe08
EOS
```

Create the `ContainerSource`:
```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha2
kind: ContainerSource
metadata:
  name: test-heartbeats
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
          name: heartbeats
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOS
```

Check the logs of the event display service. You will see a new message is pushed every second:
```bash

> $ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl logs -l serving.knative.dev/service=event-display -c user-container
```
This avoids need to look up the name of the pods before reading the logs.

Author: +1

☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: your.event.source.type
  source: urn:event:from:your-api/resource/123
  id: your-event-id
  datacontenttype: application/json
Data,
  {
    "hello": "World 1"
  }
```

> If you are interested in to see what is injected into the event source, check the logs of it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in to see what is injected into the event source, you can check the logs:
```

Not sure if you want to have the code dump out all the environment variables just for pedagogical purposes.

```bash
$ kubectl logs test-heartbeats-deployment-7575c888c7-85w5t

Sink URL is http://event-display.default.svc.cluster.local
Emitting event #1
Emitting event #2
Event posted successfully
Event posted successfully
```

Please note that the example code above is using _Binary_ mode for CloudEvents.
Simply change
```javascript
let binding = new v1.BinaryHTTPEmitter(config);
```
with
```javascript
let binding = new v1.StructuredHTTPEmitter(config);
```
to employ structured mode.

However, binary mode should be used in most of the cases as:
- It is faster in terms of serialization and deserialization
- It works better with cloudevents-aware proxies (like Knative Channels) can simply check the header instead of parsing the payload

> ## Making use of SinkBinding

Reviewer: I think we're recommending SinkBinding going forward, so I'd move this above ContainerSource (or maybe prefer to just document SinkBinding).

@n3wscott to verify

---
title: "Writing an Event Source using the easy way"
linkTitle: "Event Source - easy way"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
---

# Introduction

> As stated in [tutorial on writing a Source with a Receive Adapter](../writing-receive-adapter-source/README.md), there are multiple ways to 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
As stated in [tutorial on writing a Source with a Receive Adapter](../writing-receive-adapter-source/README.md), there are multiple ways to
```

> As stated in [tutorial on writing a Source with a Receive Adapter](../writing-receive-adapter-source/README.md), there are multiple ways to 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
As stated in [tutorial on writing a Source with a Receive Adapter](../writing-receive-adapter-source/README.md), there are multiple ways to
```

create event sources. The way in that tutorial is to create an independent event source that has its own CRD.

> In this tutorial though, you will build an event source in Javascript and use it with 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
In this tutorial though, you will build an event source in Javascript and use it with
```

> In this tutorial though, you will build an event source in Javascript and use it with 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
In this tutorial though, you will build an event source in Javascript and use it with
```

[ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) and / or [SinkBinding](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources).

> [ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) is an easy way to turn any dispatcher container into an Event Source. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
[ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) is an easy way to turn any dispatcher container into an Event Source.
```

> [ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) is an easy way to turn any dispatcher container into an Event Source. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
[ContainerSource](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources) is an easy way to turn any dispatcher container into an Event Source.
```

Similarly, another option is using [SinkBinding](../../../eventing/sources/README.md#meta-sources)

> which provides a framework for injecting environment variables into any Kubernetes resource which has a `spec.template` that looks like a Pod (aka PodSpecable). 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
which provides a framework for injecting environment variables into any Kubernetes resource which has a `spec.template` that looks like a Pod (aka PodSpecable).
```

> which provides a framework for injecting environment variables into any Kubernetes resource which has a `spec.template` that looks like a Pod (aka PodSpecable). 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
which provides a framework for injecting environment variables into any Kubernetes resource which has a `spec.template` that looks like a Pod (aka PodSpecable).
```

> Code for this tutorial is available at [Github](https://github.com/aliok/node-knative-heartbeat-source).

Author: Does anybody have an opinion on where to put this repository?

Reviewer 3: what about putting it under `https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/docs/eventing/samples` ?

Author: hmm, ok, sounds good. I haven't seen any code in `docs/eventing/samples` but there's some in `docs/serving/samples`. Let me add there.

# Bootstrapping

Create the project and add the dependencies:

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

npm init
npm install cloudevents-sdk --save
```

## Making use of ContainerSource

> `ContainerSource` and `SinkBinding` both work by injecting environment variables to an application. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
`ContainerSource` and `SinkBinding` both work by injecting environment variables to an application.
```

> `ContainerSource` and `SinkBinding` both work by injecting environment variables to an application. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
`ContainerSource` and `SinkBinding` both work by injecting environment variables to an application.
```

Injected environment variables at minimum contain the URL of a sink that will receive events.

Following example emits an event to the sink every 1000 milliseconds.

> The sink URL to post the events will be made available to the application via the `K_SINK` environment variable by `ContainerSource`. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
The sink URL to post the events will be made available to the application via the `K_SINK` environment variable by `ContainerSource`.
```

> The sink URL to post the events will be made available to the application via the `K_SINK` environment variable by `ContainerSource`. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
The sink URL to post the events will be made available to the application via the `K_SINK` environment variable by `ContainerSource`.
```

```javascript
// File - index.js

const v1 = require("cloudevents-sdk/v1");

let sinkUrl = process.env['K_SINK'];

console.log("Sink URL is " + sinkUrl);

let config = {
    method: "POST",
    url: sinkUrl
};

// The binding instance
let binding = new v1.BinaryHTTPEmitter(config);

let eventIndex = 0;
setInterval(function () {
    console.log("Emitting event #" + ++eventIndex);

    // create the event
    let myevent = v1.event()
        .id('your-event-id')
        .type("your.event.source.type")
        .source("urn:event:from:your-api/resource/123")
        .dataContentType("application/json")
        .data({"hello": "World " + eventIndex});

    // Emit the event
    binding.emit(myevent)
        .then(response => {
            // Treat the response
            console.log("Event posted successfully");
            console.log(response.data);
        })
        .catch(err => {
            // Deal with errors
            console.log("Error during event post");
            console.error(err);
        });
}, 1000);
```

> ```dockerfile 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```dockerfile
```

> ```dockerfile 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```dockerfile
```

// File - Dockerfile

FROM node:10
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .
EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "index.js" ]

```

Build and push the image:

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

docker build . -t path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1

> docker push path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
docker push path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
```

> docker push path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
docker push path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
```

```

Create the event display service which simply logs any cloudevents posted to it.
```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: event-display
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:

>         - image: docker.io/aliok/event_display-864884f202126ec3150c5fcef437d90c@sha256:93cb4dcda8fee80a1f68662ae6bf20301471b046ede628f3c3f94f39752fbe08

Author: At the moment there's a bug in the latest published image of `gcr.io/knative-releases/knative.dev/eventing-contrib/cmd/event_display` that it doesn't display events properly. 

The bug is fixed but image is not published yet. Thus, I reference my own image here. This is to be updated later.

@slinkydeveloper maybe you can add a link to the bug?

Reviewer 4: Not sure we have a link for that bug, but it was fixed between sdk-go RC1 and RC2

EOS
```

Create the `ContainerSource`:
```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha2
kind: ContainerSource
metadata:
  name: test-heartbeats
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1
          name: heartbeats
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOS
```

Check the logs of the event display service. You will see a new message is pushed every second:
```bash
$ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container

☁️  cloudevents.Event
Validation: valid
Context Attributes,
  specversion: 1.0
  type: your.event.source.type
  source: urn:event:from:your-api/resource/123
  id: your-event-id
  datacontenttype: application/json
Data,
  {
    "hello": "World 1"
  }
```

If you are interested in to see what is injected into the event source, check the logs of it:

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

> $ kubectl logs test-heartbeats-deployment-7575c888c7-85w5t 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
$ kubectl logs test-heartbeats-deployment-7575c888c7-85w5t
```

> $ kubectl logs test-heartbeats-deployment-7575c888c7-85w5t 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
$ kubectl logs test-heartbeats-deployment-7575c888c7-85w5t
```

Sink URL is http://event-display.default.svc.cluster.local
Emitting event #1
Emitting event #2
Event posted successfully
Event posted successfully
```

Please note that the example code above is using _Binary_ mode for CloudEvents.
Simply change
```javascript
let binding = new v1.BinaryHTTPEmitter(config);
```
with

> ```javascript 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```javascript
```

> ```javascript 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```javascript
```

## Making use of SinkBinding

`SinkBinding` is a more powerful way of making any Kubernetes resource an event source.

`ContainerSource` will create the container for your event source's image and it will be `ContainerSource` responsibility to manage the container.

`SinkBinding` though, will not create any containers. It will inject the sink information to the already existing Kubernetes resources.
This is a more flexible approach as you can use any Kubernetes `PodSpecable` as an event source, such as `Deployment`, `Job`, `Knative Service`, `DaemonSet` etc.

We don't need any code changes in our source for making it work with `SinkBinding`.

Create the event display as in the section before:
```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: event-display
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: docker run --name event_display --rm -p 8080:8080 docker.io/aliok/event_display-864884f202126ec3150c5fcef437d90c@sha256:93cb4dcda8fee80a1f68662ae6bf20301471b046ede628f3c3f94f39752fbe08
EOS
```

Create a Kubernetes deployment that runs the event source:

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

> ```bash 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
```bash
```

cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: node-heartbeats-deployment
  labels:
    app: node-heartbeats
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: node-heartbeats
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: node-heartbeats
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: node-heartbeats

>         image: path/to/image/registry/node-knative-heartbeat-source:v1

Reviewer 3: if you want you can use kone for publishing the image.

Author: `kone` looks good but I won't mention it in the tutorial because I don't want the dependency to it.

        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
EOS
```

As the `SinkBinding` is not created yet, `K_SINK` environment variable is not yet injected and the event source will complain about that.

```
$ kubectl logs node-heartbeats-deployment-9ffbb644b-llkzk

Sink URL is undefined
Emitting event #1
Error during event post
TypeError [ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE]: The "url" argument must be of type string. Received type undefined
```

Create the `SinkBinding`:
```bash
cat <<EOS |kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: SinkBinding
metadata:
  name: bind-node-heartbeat
spec:
  subject:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    selector:
      matchLabels:
        app: node-heartbeats
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOS
```

You will see the pods are recreated and this time the `K_SINK` environment variable is injected.

> Also note that since the `replicas` is set to 2, there will be 2 pods that are posting events to the sink. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
Also note that since the `replicas` is set to 2, there will be 2 pods that are posting events to the sink.
```

> Also note that since the `replicas` is set to 2, there will be 2 pods that are posting events to the sink. 

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
Also note that since the `replicas` is set to 2, there will be 2 pods that are posting events to the sink.
```

```bash

> $ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container  

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
$ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container
```

> $ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container  

Reviewer 2: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
$ kubectl logs event-display-dpplv-deployment-67c9949cf9-bvjvk -c user-container
```
